[Music]
it's a 4chan thing these kids on the
internet they have this group of kids
and they like to save funny words like
barrel roll or yeah there's a videogame
move from starfox starfox 20 yeah and
they've been dogging me for a year I'm
tell you driving me nuts actually
sometimes I wake up in the middle of the
night I scream when I was a 15 I found
this website called Futaba channel and
it was a Japanese forum Nimish board and
that format of forum at that time was
not well known outside of Japan and so
what I did is I took it I translate it
into English and I stuck it up with my
friends to use and now six now four
years later number seven million people
are using it contributing over 700,000
post per month or per day rather and
we've gone from one board to 48 boards
this is what it looks like so what's
unique about the site is that it's
anonymous and it has no memory there's
no archive there are no barriers there's
no registration these things that were
were used to do with with forums don't
exist on 4chan and that that's led to
this discussion that's completely raw
completely unfiltered and with the sites
known for because because it has this
environment is its foster the creation
of a lot of Internet phenomena viral
videos and whatnot notice memes - the
largest memes that have come out of the
site some of you might be familiar with
are these little cats just silly
pictures of cats with text and this
resonates with millions of people
apparently because there are tens of
thousands of these and there's a whole
blogging Empire now dedicated to
pictures like these and Rick Astley's
kind of rebirth that this these past two
years rick roll was this bait-and-switch
really simple classic bait-and-switch
somebody says they're linking you to
something interesting and you get an
80's pop song that's all it was and it
got big enough to the point where there
was a float last year at the Macy's
Thanksgiving Day Parade
and Rick Astley pops out and Rick rolls
millions of people on television there
are thousands of memes that come out of
sight that there are a handful that have
escaped into the mainstream the ones
I've just showing you but there are just
that every every day every month there
are people are producing thousands of
these so decide like this have rules we
do they're the codified rules that I've
come up with which are more or less
ignored by the community and so they've
come up with their own set of rules the
rules of the internet and so there are
three that I want to want to show you
specifically the rule one is you don't
talk about be two is you do not talk
about B and this one's kind of
interesting if it exists there is porn
of it no exceptions and I will spare you
that slide I assure you it is it is very
true B is the first chord we started
with and it is in many ways it is the
beating heart of the website it is where
a third of all the traffic is going and
B's is with known for more than anything
not just the memes that they've created
but the exploits and Chris just touched
on one of those a second ago and that
was time 100 Bowl so somebody at time at
the magazine thought it would be fun to
nominate me for this this thing they did
last year and so they placed me on it
and the internet got wouldn't of it my
community decided they wanted me to win
it
I didn't instruct them to do it they
just decided that that's what they
wanted and so you know three hundred
nine percent approval rating in so bad
[Laughter]
so they broke that pole and and I ended
up on top I ended up at this really
fancy party but that's not what's
interesting about this it's that not
they weren't putting me up at the top of
this list they were actually it got so
sophisticated the point where they gamed
all of the top 21 places to spell marble
cake also the game they the amount of
time and effort that went into that is
absolutely incredible and marble cake is
significant because it is the channel
that this group called anonymous
organized anonymous is this group of
people that protested very famously
Scientology and so the story is
Scientology had this embarrassing video
of Tom Cruise went up online they got
taken offline and managed to piss off
part of the Internet and so these people
over 7,000 people less than one month
later organised in 100 cities around the
globe and protests this is la protested
the Church of Scientology and they've
continued to do so now two full years
after the fact they are still protesting
so that so we've got this activist group
that's this grassroots group that's come
out of the site and last I'm gonna show
you the example the story of dusty the
cat dusty is is the name that we've
given to this cat this this young man
posted a video of him abusing his cat on
YouTube and you know this didn't sit
well with with people and so there was
this outpouring of support for people to
do something about this so what they did
is they put si si to shame here they the
internet detectives came out they
matched they found his myspace they they
took the YouTube video and they matched
up everything the video and within 24
hours they had his name and within 48
hours he was arrested
and so what I think is really intriguing
about it can be like 4chan is just that
it's this open place as I said it's raw
it's unfiltered and sites like it are
kind of going the way of the dinosaur
right now that they're endangered
because we're moving towards social
network and we're moving towards
persistent identity we're moving towards
you know a lack of privacy really we're
sacrificing a lot of that and I think in
doing so moving towards those things
we're losing something valuable thank
you
thank you know I've got a couple
questions for you but if I ask them is
the Ted website gonna go down well
you're lucky that this is this is not
being streamed to them live right now
well you never know some of them we've
got people in 75 countries out there
watching Don't Tell but but seriously so
this this issue on anonymity is is I
mean you made the case there but
anonymity basically allows people to say
anything all the rules gone you've had
to wrestle with issues like child
pornography and I'm just curious whether
you you sometimes lie awake in the night
worrying that you've opened Pandora's
box it's yes and no I mean that for is
for as much good that kind of comes out
of this this environment there is plenty
of bad there are plenty of downsides but
I think that the greater good is that is
being served here by just allowing
people there are very few places now
where you can go and not have minded to
be completely anonymous and say and say
whatever you'd like and saying whatever
you like
I think it's powerful doing whatever
you're like is now crossing a line but I
think it's important to have these
places where people I get emails people
say thank you for giving this place this
outlet where I can come after to work
and be myself but words saying things
you know can be constructive it can be
really damaging and if you cut the link
between what is said and any attribution
back to you I mean surely there are huge
risks with that there are certainly but
tell me about what I mean I think you
asked the board what you might say at
Ted right yeah I I posted a thread on
Sunday and within 24 hours it had over
12,000 responses and the thing is I
can't read I didn't make me that
presentation because I can't read to you
anything that they said more or less no
99% of it is just would have been you
know bleeped out but there were some
good things that came out of that too
love and peace were mentioned love and
peace of mentioned kind of with quote
mozzarella and some dogs were mentioned
too and has that that content is all off
the board no right it's gone or is it
still up there I I stuck that thread so
it could last in a few days and went up
to about 16,000 posts and now now it is
it has been taken off okay well that now
I'm not sure I would have necessarily
recommended everyone at Ted to go and
check it out anyway but Chris Chris you
yourself I mean you're at your you know
you're a figure of some intrigue you've
done you've got this surprising send me
underground you know influence but it's
not making you a lot of money yet what
what's like what's the commercial
picture here sorry that's the commercial
picture is that there really isn't much
of one I guess you know when you've got
the site has adult content on it and it
I mean obviously it's got some very
offensive obscene content on it just in
terms of language alone and when you've
got that you've pretty much sacrificed
any hope of making lots of money but you
you still live at home right I actually
moved out recently I got out of mom's
and I'm back in back in scoring but what
conversations did you or do you have
with your mother about fortune at first
very kind of pained awkward
conversations the site is the content is
not dinner table conversation in the
least but they're my parents I think
part of the why they they kind of are
able to appreciate it is because they
don't understand it and they were
probably pleased to see you on top of
the time ho that must have been they
know like that
they still didn't know what to think of
that and so in in ten years time what do
you picture yourself doing that is a
good question as I said I just went back
to school and I am considering majoring
in urban studies and then going on to
urban planning I kind of taking what
I've liked whatever I've learned from
online communities and trying to adapt
that to Chris thank you absolutely
fascinating thanks for coming said